# 4.4.1 Sidechain SDK

### **How to use the SDK**

1. Experiment with the template, running the [sidechain demo](../4.6-demos/4.6.1-sidechain-demo.md)​.
2. Fork the worker repository `https://github.com/integritee-network/worker.git` from the SDK release branch (`sdk-v0.13.0-polkadot-v0.9.42`).
3. Build the worker in [sidechain mode](4.4.1-sidechain-sdk.md#building-the-worker-in-sidechain-validateer-mode-a-hrefbuild-sidechain-mode-idbuild-sidechain-modea).
4. Write and integrate your own [#business-logic-stf](4.4.1-sidechain-sdk.md#business-logic-stf "mention"), e.g. in a substrate pallet.
5. Deploy on the [Integritee parachain](4.4.7-integritee-parachain-integration.md) or your own testnet.

### **Building the worker in sidechain validator mode** <a href="#build-sidechain-mode" id="build-sidechain-mode"></a>

In order to build the worker in sidechain mode, the corresponding cargo feature `sidechain` needs to be set. In the Makefiles, the environment variable `WORKER_MODE` is used to set the cargo features for the worker mode.

In case you build with `make` directly, do so with:

`WORKER_MODE=sidechain make`

In case you use docker with our `build.Dockerfile`, use `--build-arg WORKER_MODE_ARG=sidechain` to set the corresponding docker `ARG`.

An example of a docker build command (as currently used for GitHub CI):

{% code lineNumbers="true" %}
```
docker build -t integritee-worker --target deployed-worker --build-arg WORKER_MODE_ARG=sidechain -f build.Dockerfile .
```
{% endcode %}

### **Customizing a sidechain**

#### **Business logic / STF**

This is the core part of the code changes necessary to turn the generic worker into your specific use-case. Read more in [#business-logic-stf](4.4.1-sidechain-sdk.md#business-logic-stf "mention").

#### **RPC Interface**

In case you want to extend the existing RPC interface, [#rpc-interface](4.4.1-sidechain-sdk.md#rpc-interface "mention") tells you how.

#### **CLI Client**

A simple [CLI client](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/tree/master/cli) implementation is available in the worker repository, to showcase communication with the worker, either by 'direct invocation' or 'indirect invocation'. For a sidechain validateer, 'direct invocation' will likely be the predominant way of communicating with a worker.

The CLI client uses [JSON RPC 2.0](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) over web-socket to communicate with a worker (direct invocation and trusted getters), as can be seen [here](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/a9a5afdb2de093de0062d7cb7ad302b8501e24a0/cli/src/trusted\_operation.rs#L226) for example. The web-socket connection is secured by TLS with an enclave self-signed certificate.
