# 4.4.8 EVM Smart Contract Framework
In order to run smart contract features on a sidechain the evm feature can be used. 

> **_NOTE:_**
> The current version supports deploying and calling a smart contract as well as reading its state. Obtaining values from getters or events or authorized data access are not supported yet. 

### **How to use the SDK**
1. Fork the worker repository `https://github.com/integritee-network/worker.git` from the SDK release branch (TODO release)
2. Build the worker in [sidechain mode](4.4.1-sidechain-sdk.md) and activate the [EVM features](4.4.8-evm-smart-contract-framework.md#activate-evm-features)

### **Activate EVM features**
In order to activate the EVM feature, the corresponding cargo feature `evm` needs to be set. In the Makefiles, the environment variable `ADDITIONAL_FEATURES` is used to set the cargo features that do not correspond to the worker mode.

In case you build with `make` directly, do so with:

`ADDITIONAL_FEATURES=evm make`

### **CLI Client**
The [CLI client](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/tree/master/cli) offers additional EVM features.

#### **Deploying a Smart Contract**
To use a smart contract it has to created in the sidechain. Therefore, you need the bytecode of the compiled smart contract. An example smart contract can be found in [Counter.sol](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/master/enclave-runtime/src/test/Counter.sol]).
The online solidity IDE [remix.ethereum.org](https://remix.ethereum.org/) can be used to edit and compile a smart contract and to obtain the bytecode. 

To create a smart contract on the sidechain use

`integritee-cli trusted --mrenclave <MRENCLAVE> evm-create <FROM> <SMART_CONTRACT>`

where `SMART_CONTRACT` is the bytecode of the smart contract. The call will return the **execution address** where the smart contract is deployed. This address will be required to read or call the smart contract. 

#### **Read Smart Contract Storage**
Variables in a smart contract belong to its storage. The CLI offers a feature to obtain the value of the first variable:

`integritee-cli trusted --mrenclave <MRENCLAVE> evm-read <FROM> <EXECUTION_ADDRESS>`

#### **Call Smart Contract Methods**
To call a method from a smart contract 

`integritee-cli trusted --mrenclave <MRENCLAVE> evm-call <FROM> <EXECUTION_ADDRESS> <FUNCTION>`

where `FUNCTION` is the hash of the function, that can be obtained after compiling the smart contract. 




