# 4.4.6 RPC Interface

A worker provides a [JSON RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) interface that runs on a secure websocket server inside the enclave. The web-socket connection is secured by a TLS connection with a certificate signed with the enclave signing key.

The rpc method names of the worker are chosen such that they match the naming scheme of the rpc calls of substrate: https://docs.substrate.io/v3/runtime/custom-rpcs/

## Available RPC calls

### General
- `rpc_methods` (no params): List all available (though maybe unimplemented) rpc methods. Example: `{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "method": "rpc_methods","id": 1}`
- `author_getShieldingKey` (no params): Retrieves the public shielding key, which the client can use to encrypt the messages before sending it to the worker. Beware: unlike openssl, intel sgx encryption uses little endian (le) for interpreting the shielding key.
- `author_getMuRaUrl` (no params): Retrieves the mutual remote attestation url of the worker (Only needed by fellow validateers).
- `author_getUntrustedUrl` (no params): Retrieves the untrusted ws url of the worker (Only needed by fellow validateers).

The server response is a json rpc response containing a [substrate codec](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/advanced/scale-codec/) encoded [`RpcReturnValue`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/core-primitives/types/src/rpc.rs#L8-L14) as param. It has the following parameters:
- `value`: Encoded return value, depends on the called function and status.
- `do_watch`: If not true, the server will close the connection after sending this response.
- `status`: [`DirectRequestStatus`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/core-primitives/types/src/lib.rs#L87-L95). Indicates the status of the request.

For all rpc methods the following holds true:  If the status is an `Error`, the value is an encoded `String` error message. If `Ok` is returned, the value will also contain an encoded `String`, containing the requested response, be it an url or a shielding key.

### Trusted Calls
Like in substrate, the state changing calls are first stored in a pool. The following rpc methods are available:
  - `author_submitAndWatchExtrinsic`, params: `Vec<String>`(hex encoded `Request`). The server will keep the wss connection open and send status updates.
  - `author_submitExtrinsic`, params: `Vec<String>` (hex encoded `Request`). The server will close the connection immediately after the first response.
  - `author_pendingExtrinsics`, params: `Vec<String>` (Vector of base58 shards as strings). Returns all pending operations of the listed shards in the top pool.

#### Request
All rpc params are expected to be a hex encoded (with [substrate codec](https://docs.substrate.io/v3/advanced/scale-codec/)) [Request](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/core-primitives/types/src/lib.rs#L64-L68), with the parameters:
- shard :  `H256` : H256 of a state
- cyphertext : `Vec<u8>` : with the shielding key encrypted `TrustedOperation`.

To be able to support multiple states within one worker, each call submissions needs to be accompanied by a state defining shard. Currently, all calls need to be wrapped in a [`TrustedOperation`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/app-libs/stf/src/lib.rs#L112-L118) wrapper. To be able to support fully featured privacy, all trusted operations are expected to be encrypted with the shielding key that can be retrieved with `author_getShieldingKey`.

The `TrustedOperation` is a wrapper around a [`TrustedCallSigned`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/app-libs/stf/src/lib.rs#L243-L248) which consists of three components:
- nonce (to prevent replay attacks)
- [signature](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/app-libs/stf/src/lib.rs#L195-L200) of the call (contains the nonce, mrenclave as well as the shard)
- the `TrustedCall` itself

The current implementation of the [`TrustedCall`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/app-libs/stf/src/lib.rs#L169-L176) supports the following calls:
- `balance_set_balance` set the balance of an account (signer, beneficary, free balance, reserved balance)
- `balance_transfer` transfer balance from first account to second account
- `balance_unshield` transfer balance from sidechain (incognito) account to parentchain (public) account.
- `balance_shield` transfer balance from parentchain (public) account to sidechain (incognito) account.

and can be easily extended for each use case.

#### Response
The response for a `TrustedCall` is also a `RpcReturnValue`. The `status` may be `Error` or an enum called [`TrustedOperationStatus`](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/17e9776cbf09d0a1dd765546f27fc4d3c7bfefc4/core-primitives/types/src/lib.rs#L98-L123), which shows the current status of the Operation. E.g. `Submitted` or `InSidechainBlock`. The `value` field contains the encoded Hash of the corresponding `TrustedOperation`.


### Getter
A Getter is submitted to an RPC function called `state_executeGetter`. It expects a `Request` which consists of the chosen `shard` and a `codec` encoded `Getter`. There is no encryption with the shielding key necessary, because the RPC server - client connection is protected with TLS.  The RPC function call will immediately return the result of the getter as

```rust
RpcReturnValue {
    do_watch: false,
    value: state_getter_value.encode(),
    status: DirectRequestStatus::Ok,
}
```

where the the value is an encoded  `Option` containing the encoded expected return value. The balance getter for example would be an encoded `Balance`.

## Extend the RPC interface
You can, of course, also add your own RPC functions by extending the `IoHandler` [here](https://github.com/integritee-network/worker/blob/72d9ba960803b367a9cb4f0bc62d0f4a4b13fe6d/enclave-runtime/src/rpc/worker\_api\_direct.rs#L57). Note that all JSON strings, incoming parameters and outgoing results, are expected to be hex encoded.

An example of a new RPC method called `my_own_rpc_method`, added to the `IoHandler` `io` :

```rust
io.add_sync_method("my_own_rpc_method", move |params: Params| {

    // Get the hex encoded parameters (if any, otherwise skip this).
    let hex_encoded_params = params.parse::<Vec<String>>().map_err(|e| format!("{:?}", e))?;

    // Decode the parameters to your desired concrete object (`Request` in this example),
    // taken from the first parameter that was provided.
	let request =
	    Request::from_hex(&hex_encoded_params[0].clone()).map_err(|e| format!("{:?}", e))?;

    // Process the request and generate response
    let result = call_my_function(request);

    // Return
	Ok(json!(result.to_hex()))
});
```
