# 5.2.2 Intel SGX Licences

{% hint style="info" %}
Thanks to DCAP on the Integritee Network and the [Attesteer](../../4-development/4.5-attesteer.md), you do not need a production license with intel anymore. We keep this chapter for reference only
{% endhint %}

In order to perform a remote attestation of the enclave, an [Intel SGX Attestation Enhanced Service Privacy ID (EPID)](https://api.portal.trustedservices.intel.com/EPID-attestation) is needed. We use unlinkable quotes in our code with enhanced privacy.

### Development Access

Development access is free and merely needs an [Intel Development Access Account](https://api.portal.trustedservices.intel.com/EPID-attestation). After registration, you can copy your `SPID` and the primary or secondary subscription key to:

* `bin/spid.txt`
* `bin/key.txt`

**Note**: You need to use Linux line endings in these files.

The enclave will be signed with the development key found under `enclave-runtime/Enclave_private.pem` and uses the configuration found under `enclave-runtime/Enclave.config.xml`.

### Production Access

You need a commercial license with Intel to run your enclaves in production mode (the only mode that really is confidential). Only legal entities can get a commercial license with Intel. Get in touch with them to obtain one. Please note that this whole process will soon be obsolete, as you can perform remote attestation with Integritee as an intermediary. So you only need to get in touch with us! Stay tuned for updates here!

After registration, you can copy your `SPID` and the primary or secondary subscription key to:

* `bin/spid_production.txt`
* `bin/key_production.txt`

**Note**: You need to use Linux line endings in these files.

The enclave will be signed with the private key that was also registered and whitelisted at Intel's (in the process of obtaining a commercial license). Make sure that this key is exported as an environment variable called `SGX_COMMERCIAL_KEY`.

The enclave in production mode uses the configuration found under `enclave-runtime/Enclave.config.production.xml`. The only difference is that the option `DisableDebug` is set to `1`.

