# 3.5.1 Sidechains

### **Gaming**

Our shardable second-layer sidechains are an excellent fit for decentralized gaming providers. Blockchain-based gaming comes with exciting opportunities, such as asset tokenization associated with ownership for gamers and the opportunity for users to participate in steering the game through governance processes. However, decentralized gaming solutions often cannot compete with centralized gaming platforms with respect to performance. Also, game states must be kept confidential, so public on-chain data cannot be exploited by players' opponents. Integritee’s sidechain technology is used by decentralized gaming projects to leverage the benefits of blockchain-based gaming, while overcoming its current challenges. Sidechains' sub-second block production times (low latencies), their independent scalability of around 2,000 tps per Sidechain as well as the confidentiality of gaming states enable a high-quality decentralized gaming experience that will certainly increase the adoption of blockhain-based gaming.

### **Metaverse**

The Metaverse is supposed to change our lives - a virtual parallel world based on Web3 full of engagement and opportunities for individuals. Each of us will be able to create new worlds and spaces, an individual avatar and decide in which world/room/environment, or even social interaction to engage. Nevertheless, similar challenges as for decentralized gaming have to be overcome. The Metaverse must be built on an infrastructure that offers a high-quality and high-performance experience. Moreover, the Metaverse will store much more than your email addresses and passwords. It will store your behaviors too. With such a large pool of senstive data, privacy and security of personal data must be guaranteed. Integritee’s sidechain technology is optimally suited to serve as the infrastructure layer for Metaverse projects by delivering speed and confidentiality. At scale.

### **Decentralized** **Identity**

Decentralized identity (DID) is an emerging concept that gives back control of identity to consumers through the use of an identity wallet in which they collect verified information about themselves from certified issuers, such as service providers. The identity wallet with its stored identity-linking information then allows users to create their decentralized identity (in the form of cryptographic keys) and manage their access to service providers. DID providers use our technology to ensure the privacy, anonymity and sovereignty of their users' sensitive identity data. Integritee sidechains can be used to securely and confidentially store identity-linking information without opening up new security and privacy attack fields. Moreover, our Attesteer verifies that the identity-linking information is kept confidential and only used as pre-agreed - a strong enhanced value proposition for our DID partner projects, as its greatly increases the transparency and trust for their users.

### **Health and Wearables**

Wearable and connected devices like smartwatches, fitness trackers and connected weighing scales have been a big growth sector in recent years. This upward trend is projected to continue. The shipment volume of connected wearable devices globally is projected to almost triple from 266 million units in 2020 to 776 million units in 2026. This is a highly competitive market with tech giants like Apple and Samsung joined by watch manufacturers and fashion brands seeking to diversify such as Casio, Fossil and Emporio Armani. Such devices rely on data-driven apps that enable users to upload their personal metrics, share their running routes, and compare their progress to the average for users of a similar age, weight, etc.

To achieve greater market penetration, consumers need reassurance that their health, location and other personal data will be securely managed. Challenger manufacturers need more data to compete with the biggest players. They could pool data insights with similar-sized firms, but this could potentially breach privacy laws and/or reveal sensitive business information to competitors.

Integritee can enable groups of manufacturers to engage in cooperative competition by pooling data insights. No participant has direct access to the underlying dataset, and all data can only be processed in pre-agreed ways. We would provide public auditability so that users can verify that no personally identifiable data is revealed to the device manufacturer or any third party.

### **Privacy Messenger Bridge**

As users become increasingly aware of data privacy, encrypted messaging apps like Signal and Threema have exploded in popularity. In May 2021, it was reported that Telegram and Signal had achieved a 1,200% year-on-year increase in users. While it is great that so many people are placing greater value on their privacy, this has resulted in a fragmentation of messaging services.

Users need to manage multiple incompatible privacy apps. It can be difficult to remember which app to use to message a particular contact.

Integritee could be used to create a secure bridge between privacy apps. This would mean that you could message contacts from a range of privacy services with one app. All interfacing with messaging APIs would be carried out within a trusted execution environment (TEE), making data inaccessible to any other actor. Thanks to the public auditability , end-users could verify that their data was only processed within a TEE and was therefore never accessible to a third-party in an unencrypted state.

### **Smart Contract Sidechain with EVM for private and scalable DeFi without frontrunning**

Integritee’s sidechains can be leveraged to deploy any smart contract logic, including smart contracts enabled by EVM, with privacy and scalability as additional benefits. A specific example is a DeFi application in need for scalability and/or privacy. With validators running inside a TEE, any sensitive information can be kept confidential, so malicious behavior like frontrunning can be avoided.
